---
hide:
  - toc
---

# Collaborative Learning, Self-Efficacy, and Student Performance in CS1 POGIL

**Reference:** Aman Yadav, Chris Mayfield, Sukanya Kannan Moudgalya, Clif Kussmaul, Helen H. Hu. (2021). Collaborative Learning, Self-Efficacy, and Student Performance in CS1 POGIL. In *Proceedings of the 52nd ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education*.

<div class="grid" markdown="1">

**Entry Key:** `#!tex \cite{10.1145/3408877.3432373}`

**Entry Type:** `@inproceedings`

</div>

[:material-download: Download .bib file](acm_3408877.3432373.bib){download="acm_3408877.3432373.bib"}

## Metadata

Field | Value
------|------
author | Yadav, Aman and Mayfield, Chris and Moudgalya, Sukanya Kannan and Kussmaul, Clif and Hu, Helen H.
title | Collaborative Learning, Self-Efficacy, and Student Performance in CS1 POGIL
year | 2021
isbn | 9781450380621
publisher | Association for Computing Machinery
address | New York, NY, USA
url | https://doi.org/10.1145/3408877.3432373
doi | 10.1145/3408877.3432373
abstract | Collaborative learning actively engages students in the learning process while developing professional skills that employers seek. Approaches such as Pair Programming and Peer Instruction have been shown to improve student outcomes in computer science. Process Oriented Guided Inquiry Learning (POGIL) is another col- laborative learning approach that aims to develop students' mastery of discipline-specific concepts as well as 'process skills' like com- munication, teamwork, and critical thinking. This paper examines students' perceptions of their content learning and process skills in courses that recently switched to POGIL. We explore the re- lationship between those perceptions, self-efficacy, and learning performance. Our results show that students have positive views about their teamwork, developing skills to work with others, and thinking through a problem. However, self-efficacy is the only sig- nificant predictor of their learning. We discuss the implications of these results for using POGIL and other collaborative learning in CS courses, and identify directions for future work.
booktitle | Proceedings of the 52nd ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education
pages | 775–781
numpages | 7
keywords | cs1, pogil, learning outcomes, teamwork, self-efficacy
location | Virtual Event, USA
series | SIGCSE '21
